# Huffman Encoding Tree
- Data Structure project

# Environment Specification
Java Version: 14
IDE: IntelliJ IDEA 2021.2.3 (Ultimate Edition)
Developed Machine: Macbook Pro (16-inch, 2019) with macOS Monterey Version 12.0.1

# Main Method
$ javac ./**/*.java && java -classpath src main.Lab03 inputs/FreqTable_unix.txt inputs/ClearText.txt inputs/Encoded.txt outputs/EncodeOutput.txt outputs/DecodeOutput.txt
$ javac ./**/*.java && java -classpath src main.Lab03 inputs/FreqTable_unix.txt inputs/ClearText_Add.txt inputs/Encoded_Add.txt outputs/EncodeOutput_Add.txt outputs/DecodeOutput_Add.txt

By running the command above, you will be seeing,
1. Print-out of the tree in preorder traversal - [Huffman Encoding Tree in preorder] (also in a file named 'HuffmanTree_preorder_traversal.txt')
2. Print-out of the resulting encoding generated by the tree - [Encode letter values from FrequencyTable] (also in a file named 'alphabetEncoded.txt')
3. EncodeOutput.txt file that outputs encoded strings from ClearText.txt file (+Additional Strings included in the same file).
4. DecodeOutput.txt file that outputs decoded strings from Encoded.txt file (+Additional Strings included in the same file).

NOTE1
When encoding/decoding as a part of error handling and enhancement, unavailable characters are displayed as it is.

NOTE2
Besides existing Strings in ClearText.txt and Encoded.txt, additional Strings are included in the same files for convenience.


# Test Method
$ javac ./**/*.java && java -classpath src test.Test

The command above activates unit test suits. It is expected to print out success messages for each test lists
i.e.
[MinHeapTests] All tests pass
[HeapNodeArrayUtilsTests] All tests pass
[SingleUtilsTests] All tests pass
[HuffmanEncodingTreeTests] All tests pass


# List of Enhancements
- [x] Unit Tests for significant methods (4 different class with total number of 20 tests).
- [x] Making use of Other Frequency Tables (6 different frequency tables are included and used for tests).
- [x] `encode`/`decode` method: Special characters (exclamation mark, question mark, etc) that are not part of the frequency table are handled with warning. This is also an error handling where string that are not available in Frequency Table (.,?! ) => Use the unrecognized character as it is.
- [x] Time it took for encoding/decoding each String in Nanoseconds. (Miliseconds were not small enough to see the numerical difference clearly).
- [x] Efficiency Comparison Experiment.
- [x] Improvement in methods for preorder traversal and letter table of encoded values to generate results as files.


# Analysis
Included in docs directory

# Note
Please contact me at jjeong17@jh.edu if execution command is not working. 
For the record, all commands have no issue for me.